The Consciousness Framework/The Personal Mastery Framework

(A framework for Healthy, Happy and Contented Life)

Below is a Novel work, simplified for general Audience. 

During my conversation with many people and striving to riding the train towards Meditative and Disciplined life, was able to structure the path to higher consciousness with a short practical framework.

The objective of this model is to achieve and sustain a brighter body, mind and soul, which helps humans to bring high quality creative outcome. This FW will provide "HOW" to achieve that level and does not answer "WHY" which is less of a scope. 


Here we go..!


Level 1) Free from Bodily Troubles -
         We cannot achieve Level 6 if we have bodily troubles like lack of energy, Gastrointestinal (GI) issues, Respiratory troubles etc.. So we should embed and install a habit of maintaining Healthy Body (Regular Exercise, 30 min Eating, 7PM slowdown ). This can be discussed in whole detail separately.

Level 2) Free from Sensory Trouble -

            Once you achieve and able to sustain L-1, we many encounter disturbances from sensors like low motivation talks tru ears, Movies and visuals that drag us down. We many also anxious about future and may carry past worries and success, all from stored data in "Amygdala".  Should develop  a strong habit to trim away all sensory triggers. Deep Breathing with Meditation will help us to cross Level-2

Level 3) Free from lack of Confidence and Motivation

  Once we have healthy body and Mind. We may fall to this stage - where we do not have any proper goals, even if we have we may not have needed motivation and confidence to take the lead towards the Goal. This is an important phase to cross, there are higher chances that we may be dragged town to L2 and then to L1. Stay in absolute silence. This stage will be very short and will cross by itself. 

Level 4) Creative high Quality work (EgoFul)

  After L-3 we are very powerful and by default produce very high quality work in whatever field we are in.  We work without any outer disturbances, with poised and serene mind. By time, we may cultivate "aham" or "I" or "Ego" that it is ME who did this awesome creation and our mind crave towards fruit for the labor and to accumulate more and more rewards, which is an endless uncontented journey. This leads and drag the human towards L-1.

Level - 5) World class Work (Ego less and submissive)

   Once we have proven our ability to create a wonderful unique creation, be it a service or product which gives immense joy and benefit to the recipients/society. We should slowly try to achieve a state of Non Ego work and submit the results of the work to Work itself. The fulfillment and rewards to the Work will become the work itself. A complete ego less form of producing a world class outcome. 

Level - 6) Sustain L1- L5

  This stage is important. Once we are able to produce a higher order work without ego. We have to sustain L1-L5. 




